JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
The issue, plain and simple,
came down to
a matter of trust.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Turnover at the
White House.
We have the latest on the
resignation of President
Trump's national security
adviser.
Then: Ahead of Israeli Prime
Minister Netanyahu's
visit to the White House, a look
at possible
changes in Middle East policy
under the Trump
administration.
Plus, a story of hope -- how one
Kansas school
is helping homeless students
overcome the
challenges they face outside the
classroom.
MALIK CUSHON, Student: I got to
think about
what I'm eating for the night.
I got to think about how bills
are going to
get paid.
I got to think about all this
extra stuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: He served just 24
days, the
shortest tenure ever for a
president's national
JUDY WOODRUFF: He served just 24
days, the
shortest tenure ever for a
president's national
security adviser.
Now Michael Flynn has been
forced out, but
the firestorm over his
resignation has just
begun.
John Yang reports on this day of
turmoil.
JOHN YANG: President Trump knew
since late
last month that his Michael
Flynn had misled
the White House about his
telephone conversation
with the Russian ambassador.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
We have been reviewing and
evaluating this
issue, with respect to General
Flynn, on a
daily basis for a few weeks,
trying to ascertain
the truth.
JOHN YANG: Press Secretary Sean
Spicer said
the warning came from acting
Attorney General
Sally Yates, based on an NSA
phone intercept.
SEAN SPICER: The White House
counsel informed
the president immediately.
The president asked them to
conduct a review
of whether there was a legal
situation there.
That was immediately determined
that there
wasn't.
That was what the president
believed at the
time, what he had been told, and
he was proved
to be correct.
The issue, pure and simple, came
down to a
matter of trust, and the
president concluded
that he no longer had the trust
of his national
security adviser.
JOHN YANG: Flynn had denied
publicly, and
to vice president-elect Pence
directly, that
he had discussed U.S. sanctions
with the Russian
ambassador to the United States
during the
transition.
It came out last week that he
had.
Today, Spicer argued Flynn
didn't break the
law against private citizens
conducting diplomacy.
SEAN SPICER: There is nothing
that the general
did that was a violation of any
sort.
He was well within his duties to
discuss issues
of common concern between the
two countries.
I will say it again: What this
came down to
is a matter of trust.
JOHN YANG: By last night, Spicer
said, the
president asked for Flynn's
resignation.
Today, Mr. Trump ignored shouted
questions
about Flynn.
Instead, he tweeted: "The real
story here
is, why are there so many
illegal leaks coming
out of Washington?"
SEAN SPICER: It's not just
something that
is plaguing the current
situation, but it
goes back to the Obama
administration, the
Bush administration, the Clinton
administration.
When we have government
employees that are
entrusted with this and then
leak it out,
that undermines our national
security, frankly.
JOHN YANG: At the Capitol, House
Speaker Paul
Ryan agreed that Flynn had to
go.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: I
think the president made the
right decision
to ask for his resignation.
You cannot have a national
security adviser
misleading the vice president
and others.
JOHN YANG: Ryan wouldn't say if
he thinks
an investigation is needed.
House Oversight Committee
Chairman Jason Chaffetz
said: "The situation has taken
care of itself."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell said
it's highly likely that the
Senate will investigate.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: The
Intelligence Committee is
already looking
at Russian involvement in our
election.
And they have broad jurisdiction
over the
intel community writ large.
And they can look at whatever
they choose
to.
JOHN YANG: Top Democrats
demanded an independent
probe.
REP.
ELIJAH CUMMINGS (D), Maryland:
Do you hear
the silence?
This is the sound of House
Republicans conducting
no oversight of President Trump.
Zero.
That is what it sounds like when
they abdicate
their duty under the
Constitution.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: There
are potential violations of law
here by General
Flynn and potentially others.
What I am calling for is an
independent investigation
with executive authority to
pursue potential
criminal actions.
JOHN YANG: In Moscow, the
Kremlin called it
an internal matter for the
United States.
But hard-line lawmakers like
Alexei Pushkov
said Flynn was the victim of a
witch-hunt.
Mr. Trump named retired Army
Lieutenant General
Keith Kellogg as his acting
national security
adviser.
He's served as chief of staff
for the National
Security Council and advised Mr.
Trump during
his campaign.
The leading contenders for a
permanent replacement
are widely reported to include
former Vice
Admiral Robert Harward, a
retired Navy SEAL,
and former CIA Director and
retired Army General
David Petraeus.
Petraeus is currently on
probation for revealing
classified intelligence to his
mistress.
Spicer said the president did
not know that
Flynn had discussed U.S.
sanctions with the
ambassador until acting Attorney
General Yates
contacted the White House on
January 26.
Spicer stressed that Flynn's
firing had nothing
to do with the phone call itself
-- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, there
are so many
threads to this story.
Among other things, we're
learning that the
FBI interviewed General Flynn
very shortly
after the new administration
took office.
What are the questions at the
White House
about -- how are they answering
these questions
about why it took so long, from
then until
now, for this to unfold, to come
out?
JOHN YANG: What they say is that
this had
been reviewed for weeks and that
it only was
in the last night that Mr. Trump
decided to
ask for his resignation.
It was also last night that The
Washington
Post reported this contact from
the acting
attorney general with the White
House.
The interview story you
mentioned is from
The New York Times.
They quote current and former
officials, unnamed,
saying that they found Mr. Flynn
to be less
than forthcoming in these FBI
interviews immediately
after the inauguration.
If officials conclude that he
deliberately
lied to the FBI, that could lead
to a felony
charge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
John, how
is the White House dealing with
this overall?
JOHN YANG: They are -- they came
out today.
They made a clean breast of it.
They tried to be as forthcoming
as they could
in the briefing.
Sean Spicer stressed over and
over again this
was a matter of trust, that
Flynn was doing
his job as preparing to be
national security
adviser by talking to the
ambassador.
They said it should be no
surprise that he
was talking about issues of
concern to both
of them, but they are hoping
that they can
put this to rest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Yang at the
White House,
we thank you.
And at the other end of
Pennsylvania Avenue,
our Lisa Desjardins joins us for
the latest
from Capitol Hill.
So, Lisa, we heard a little
about this already
in John's report.
But what are you picking up
there?
How are -- especially the
leadership in both
parties, how are they reacting?
LISA DESJARDINS: The White House
may want
to put this to rest, but there's
no signs
of that happening at the Capitol
yet, Judy.
There are two camps, especially
among Senate
Republicans.
That's the place to watch.
Some, like Senate Leader Mitch
McConnell,
say this should all be folded
into an ongoing
investigation already under way
by the Senate
Intelligence Committee.
That's over Russian hacking and
Russian manipulation
of the elections.
We know that will include now
questions about
General Flynn.
But that's only in private,
Judy.
Other Senate Republicans say
this needs to
have more light of day.
They want public hearings,
including a public
hearing with General Flynn.
That's a divide for Senate
Republicans right
now.
Meanwhile, some other
Republicans say the
real investigation up here
should be into
the leaks, not into Mr. Flynn.
These are all issues swirling
right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, what
about the Democrats?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
The Democrats came out strong
today, as John
reported.
Chuck Schumer, asking for this
independent
investigation, his folks told me
that could
include the FBI investigation
under way, but
only if new Attorney General
Jeff Sessions
recuses himself.
That is a critical point for
Democrats.
Also, at the same time, they're
asking questions
about House Intelligence
Chairman Devin Nunes.
He has generally been supportive
of General
Flynn, said he made a decision
to resign.
But he's not investigating.
Some point out that Mr. Nunes
was himself
on the Trump transition team.
I asked him about that, asked
his office about
that.
They said he will follow all the
leads that
he can.
Meanwhile, Democrats also eager
to point out
that another national security
issue arose
with Republicans in the past
couple of years
when they investigated Hillary
Clinton, a
Democrat, and they see this as
somewhat hypocritical.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins,
so much to
follow.
Thank you very much.
In the day's other news:
Tensions with Russia
are rising on another front.
The New York Times reports that
Moscow has
deployed a new ground-launched
cruise missile,
ignoring U.S. complaints that it
violates
a 1987 treaty.
The Obama administration
objected to the missile
during its testing phase in 2014
and 2015.
Five hundred U.S. troops arrived
in Romania
today as part of a mission to
shore up NATO
allies in Eastern Europe.
Shipments of American tanks were
taken by
train to an air base after being
unloaded
at a Black Sea port.
The troops will be stationed
there on a rotating
basis.
NATO has beefed up defenses in
Eastern Europe
in the wake of Russia's actions
in Ukraine.
North Korea has rejected the
U.N. Security
Council's criticism of its
weekend missile
launch.
In Geneva today, the North's
ambassador to
the United Nations said -- quote
-- "The successful
test-launch of a
medium-to-long-range missile
on February 12 is a part of
self-defense measures."
But at the same conference, U.S.
Ambassador
Robert Wood called for
international action
to stop the North's missile and
nuclear tests.
ROBERT WOOD, U.S. Special
Representative to
the U.N. Conference on
Disarmament: The United
States is committed to holding
North Korea
accountable for its behavior.
We call on all states to use
every available
channel and means of influence
to make clear
to the North Korean regime, and
its enablers,
that these launches are
unacceptable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: North Korea's
missile test
was its first since President
Trump took office.
Meanwhile, there is word that
Kim Jong-nam,
half-brother to North Korea's
supreme leader,
was assassinated today in
Malaysia.
A South Korean news channel
reports that the
attackers were two women.
A senior Malaysian government
official says
that Kim claimed he was hit with
a chemical
spray at the Kuala Lumpur
Airport.
He died en route to a hospital,
where an autopsy
will now be performed.
Kim Jong-un has carried out a
brutal purge
since taking power in North
Korea in 2011.
In the Democratic Republic of
Congo, violence
surged again in an escalating
power struggle.
Police raided the home of a
religious cult
leader who's called for
President Joseph Kabila
to step down.
Four people died in the raid.
Kabila's mandate in office ran
out in December,
but he has refused to resign.
Back in this country, nearly
200,000 people
got the all-clear to return to
their homes
below a dam in Northern
California.
Helicopters had been bringing in
massive white
sandbags and cement blocks to
plug a 30-foot-deep
hole in the spillway.
This afternoon, the local
sheriff said the
danger near the Oroville Dam has
eased.
KORY HONEA, Butte County
Sheriff: Evacuation
order issued, which resulted in
people leaving
the area, and we have been
keeping them out.
But this reduces that to an
evacuation warning,
and does exactly what you said,
allows people
to return to their homes, allows
people to
resume their businesses.
But we are telling them that
they have to
be vigilant.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The forecast is
calling for
new storms in the Oroville area
on Thursday,
but officials say they think the
dam and spillway
can handle it.
Two more members of the Trump
Cabinet have
taken their seats.
David Shulkin was sworn in today
as the new
secretary of Veterans Affairs.
He easily won Senate
confirmation last night.
And Linda McMahon was sworn in
to lead the
Small Business Administration
shortly after
the Senate confirmed her today
81-19.
McMahon was previously head of
World Wrestling
Entertainment.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet
Yellen says the
Central Bank still means to
raise interest
rates this year, but it wants to
see what
the Trump administration does.
At a Senate hearing today,
Yellen acknowledged
uncertainty surrounding the
president's tax
and spending plans.
JANET YELLEN, Federal Reserve
Chair: Changes
in fiscal policy or other
economic policies
could potentially affect the
economic outlook.
Of course, it is too early to
know what policy
changes will be put in place or
how their
economic effects will unfold.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
has said that
his goal is to double economic
growth.
And on Wall Street, bank stocks
rallied after
Yellen's remarks, in hopes that
higher interest
rates will help profits, and
that led the
broader market higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 92
points to close at 20504,
another record.
The Nasdaq rose 18, and the S&P
500 added
nine.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the questions
left unanswered by General
Flynn's resignation
-- I speak to senators on the
Intelligence
Committee; a view from Israel
ahead of Benjamin
Netanyahu's meeting with
President Trump;
and much more.
Now, for what we know about what
is happening
inside the White House at this
tumultuous
moment, and the real-world
effect of this
upheaval, we turn to two veteran
national
security reporters.
Greg Miller writes for The
Washington Post.
And Michael Gordon of The New
York Times,
he wrote the story about Russian
missile moves
that we reported earlier.
Welcome, both of you, welcome
you back to
the program.
Let me start with you, Greg
Miller.
We have gotten, I think, two
different versions
over the last 24 hours of what
happened to
General Flynn since yesterday,
was that he
was asked to resign.
Today, the White House seems to
be saying
he was forced to resign.
What's the truth?
GREG MILLER, National Security
Correspondent,
The Washington Post: I think
there is really
not much doubt that he was
forced and that
a number of things forced the
White House
to make this decision.
They might not have wanted to do
it at that
particular moment, but the
cumulative total
of the headlines day after day
on Flynn and
what was happening was, I think,
too much.
And I think it really came down
to two basic
things, one, what he did, and
just what he
discussed with the Russian
ambassador, but,
more significantly, how he
misled senior officials
at the White House, including
Vice President
Pence, about the nature of those
communications.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Greg Miller,
staying with you,
what's your understanding of why
this was
allowed to spiral on, this was
allowed to
run out as long as it did, three
weeks?
That from the time General Flynn
came into
the White House, there were
questions about
these conversations with the
Russian ambassador,
and here we are over three weeks
later.
Why did it take so long?
GREG MILLER: I mean, we're still
waiting for
really clear answers to these
questions, but
the questions are really piling
up at this
point.
I mean, we are reporting and
others are reporting
this afternoon that Flynn was
interviewed
by the FBI within his initial
days of his
arrival as national security
adviser in the
Trump administration, which
means that the
FBI was already looking at this
and putting
him -- sworn questions to him
about his communications
with Kislyak.
And then we know, as we reported
last night
at The Washington Post, that the
acting attorney
general warned the White House
weeks ago that
Flynn had misled Pence and
others.
And it took until yesterday for
the White
House to even appear to
acknowledge this discrepancy,
let alone attempt to clear any
of it up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Michael
Gordon, as somebody
who watches the entire foreign
policy establishment
in this city, what effect is
this having?
MICHAEL GORDON, Diplomatic
Correspondent,
The New York Times: Well, it
doesn't help
when your American
administration is in a
state of turmoil.
You know, today, the head of the
Special Operations
Command, General Tony Thomas,
said something
that was really incredible.
He said that -- in a conference,
he said that
the -- our own government, our
American government,
was in a state of turmoil, and
this was very
disconcerting for the military,
because they
needed stability at home in
order to deal
with wars abroad.
So, when your own generals are
talking about
it, you know it's having an
effect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Michael
Gordon, as we
said, you reported today about
the Russians
deploying a missile, violating a
treaty.
The Obama administration had
protested, as
we know, over a number of years.
What does that represent?
MICHAEL GORDON: This is a very
big deal.
This is -- there was a treaty,
the INF Treaty,
signed by President Reagan and
Mikhail Gorbachev,
which led to the elimination of
all intermediate-range
American and Russian missiles
based on land.
And it really sealed the end of
the Cold War.
And what the Russians have now
done is developed
a missile that -- and deployed
it.
And this is -- really flies in
the face of
the agreement.
This is not a technical
violation.
This is a violation at the heart
of the agreement.
Right now, it has more political
significance
than military significance,.
But if they continue deploying
these systems,
it's something that the NATO
alliance and
General -- Secretary Mattis is
going to be
there tomorrow -- is really
going to have
to address.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so, Greg
Miller, if the
National Security Council were
functioning
under normal circumstances,
wouldn't there
have been some reaction to this,
some anticipation
of it?
GREG MILLER: I mean, that's the
job of the
National Security Council is to
try to be
a disciplined clearinghouse,
gathering the
views from across multiple
agencies, teeing
up decisions that make sense for
the president.
I was told that all members of
the National
Security Council were summoned
for an all-hands
meeting at 10:00 a.m. this
morning, and that
it went for five minutes and it
was basically
a plea for people to stay in
place and not
head for the exits yet.
So, it's just a state of acute
turmoil right
now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does that
compare, Greg Miller,
to anything you have seen
before?
GREG MILLER: Oh, none
whatsoever.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Gordon,
what about
you?
I mean, when you look at the
picture of what's
going on at the National
Security Council,
the fact that -- and I think you
were telling
us today, reminding us there is
only one person
who has been confirmed at the
State Department,
Secretary Tillerson.
What is the state of American
national security
right now, decision-making?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, you can't
make a decision
about how to approach Russia if
you have no
deputy secretary of state, you
have no assistant
secretary for European affairs,
you have no
undersecretary of defense for
policy, and
you have no permanent national
security adviser.
This is an important issue, and
they simply
don't have the people in place
to begin to
make intelligent decisions about
what policy
course they want to steer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Greg Miller,
I think the
White House would say, well, we
have appointed
someone as an interim.
We are working hard to name a
permanent replacement
as national security adviser.
Why aren't they correct to say,
well, this
is just a momentary blip, we're
going to get
on with business?
GREG MILLER: I mean, it's a --
if this were
in isolation, perhaps you could
accept that
this were an ordinary blip.
But the other problems that
Michael Gordon
just outlined, in addition to
just sort of
the -- just the appearance of
chaos that you
see, the images from the
Mar-a-Lago resort
in Florida this weekend, where
the Trump officials
and Trump himself appeared to be
reacting
to North Korean missile launch
with -- by
pulling out their cell phones,
in view of
other guests at the restaurant.
I mean, across the board, it
just looks like
a lack of discipline and
organization.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quickly,
Michael Gordon,
so, what are you keeping your
eye on right
now?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, I think
Secretary Mattis
is going to be in Brussels
tomorrow with the
NATO allies.
He's clearly got to deal with
this missile
threat, because this is a --
strikes at the
heart of an agreement that is
very much valued,
not by the -- not only by the
NATO allies,
but by our Asian allies.
And so I think, tomorrow, we
should at least
see at least a glimmer of an
American response
on this.
So, I think that's the near-term
thing to
keep an eye on.
The longer-term thing is that
Mr. Flynn was
-- seemed to be cozying up to
Putin.
And now that he's gone, that
might affect
our broader policy toward
Russia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Gordon,
Greg Miller,
thank you both.
We get reaction now from Capitol
Hill to General
Flynn's resignation from two
senators who
sit on the Intelligence
Committee.
We start with James Risch from
Idaho.
I spoke with him a short time
ago.
And I started by asking if the
Senate Intelligence
Committee, with its Republican
majority, will
investigate General Flynn.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH (R), Idaho: Well,
Judy, on the
Senate Intelligence Committee,
our jurisdiction
is and our charge is to oversee
all intelligence
and counterintelligence
activities.
As such, there's already been an
investigation
started on the Russian
situation.
And, obviously, with what's
happened, that
net, I think, is wide enough --
not I think
-- that net is wide enough that
it will include
the most recent events of the
last 48 hours
or so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, that means
that investigation
will definitely be expanded to
include specifically
what General Flynn talked to the
Russian ambassador
about?
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: You know, I don't
know where
it will lead.
Obviously, we're going to lead
it -- we're
going to take it as far as we
can take it.
It's important for national
security that
we know.
Those of us that are in the
first branch of
government that actually fund
these operations
and oversee these operations,
it's really
important that these kinds of
matters be on
the table before us when we make
the policy
decisions that we have to make.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Can you say
whether or not
the investigation is going to
also look in
-- or that part of it will be
looking into
the president's handling of
this, the fact
that he was informed about
General Flynn's
conversations with the Russian
ambassador
weeks before he asked General
Flynn to step
down?
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: You know, that's a
fact that
I have seen reported today.
I don't have any independent
knowledge that
that actually occurred.
One thing I will tell you is,
the White House
and the second branch of
government is an
independent branch of
government, and there
are certain areas we don't go
into.
This is a person that's very
close to the
president.
He's not subject to Senate
confirmation.
And when the president is
getting information,
when he's being advised by these
people, it's
important that all those parties
that are
acting in the White House have
an understanding
of confidentiality.
My point is, I don't know where
this will
go in that regard.
I know what our sideboards are,
and we will
stay within those sideboards.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the White
House press
secretary said today that the
president was
informed.
It has now been announced that
the president
was informed weeks before Mr.
Flynn, General
Flynn, was asked to step down.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Well, if that fact
has been confirmed,
then it is a fact.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the -- it
sounds like you're
not saying whether or not the
committee is
going to look into the
president's handling
of this.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Well, the
president's handling
of this, I think, is a matter
that is a very
delicate situation between two
branches of
government.
And I guess what you're asking
is, what was
-- how was he motivated?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Why was this done
and what have
you?
Boy, that's an area that I think
you would
have a very difficult time
getting that information
to begin with.
Certainly, the president
wouldn't be asked
about that.
And, as a result of that, it
would be very
difficult to dig into that.
I think, if we know the facts,
that's what's
going to help us as we do our
job and move
forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the reason
I'm asking
is because, as you know, there
are serious
questions about whether
President Trump at
the time before he was president
knew about
what General Flynn was talking
to the Russian
ambassador about and whether he
condoned those
conversations.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Well, I think
that's a different
inquiry, as to whether
conversations were
condoned, depending upon what
the content
of the conversation was.
I'm very reluctant to talk about
a collision
between the two branches of
government on
something like this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, you
started out by
pointing out the committee is
already looking
into the Russian government's
involvement
in the elections last year.
Can you tell us anything about
the state of
that investigation?
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: I can.
It's just starting.
We have identified a number of
things that
we do want to look at.
We have done the things that you
do as you
prepare and start into an
investigation.
And I have been involved in lots
of these
on the committee, whether it was
Benghazi,
whether it was the torture
investigation,
others that we have done that
have not become
public.
And we're good at what we do.
We do have excellent cooperation
from the
intelligence community
generally, from the
16 intelligence agencies.
They give us good information
and particularly
when you know exactly what
you're after.
And so we feel comfortable about
moving forward
with these.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just finally,
quickly, Senator,
the White House, the president
and his spokesmen
are saying what's most important
right now
are the leaks that are coming
out about discussions,
leaks to the news media, and
that that's more
important than anything the
national security
adviser did.
Do you agree with that?
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Well, it depends on
the actual
leak that you're talking about.
When leaks are political, they
probably don't
do much harm.
When they are involved with
national security,
it is a big problem.
For the many years I have been
on the Intelligence
Committee, I have been concerned
about leaks.
So have other people.
I can tell you that, with the
great body of
intelligence information that is
out there,
not much of it has leaked out,
but even a
little bit of it being leaked
out is way too
much.
It is very dangerous.
It is un-American to leak.
It puts people's lives in
jeopardy, and it
really endangers the United
States.
Anyone who would leak national
security issues
should be ashamed of themselves,
and they
are not a credit to America.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as you
pointed out, very
little of it is leaked.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Very little of it
is leaked,
but any can be important and can
put people's
lives at risk.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator James
Risch with the
Senate Intelligence Committee,
thank you very
much, Senator.
SEN.
JAMES RISCH: Thank you, Judy.
Good to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now for a
Democrat's perspective,
and for that, the vice chairman
of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, Mark
Warner of Virginia.
I began by asking what he
thought the Senate
should be doing about General
Flynn's discussions
with the Russian ambassador.
SEN.
MARK WARNER (D), Virginia: Well,
these discussions
are very troubling.
And the first thing we need to
do is get to
the facts.
We have heard reports that he
may have been
making certain statements that
were inappropriate
to the Russian ambassador.
We have not yet seen those
transcripts.
Once we see the transcripts,
then, if they
prove as the media has
indicated, they would
fall into part of the area that
the investigation
that we are putting forward by
the Senate
Intelligence Committee that's
looking at contacts
between former campaign
officials and the
Russian government, looking at
Russian interference
into the election in terms of
spreading fake
news, and obviously the
selective hacking
and leaking of information that
favored Mr.
Trump over Hillary Clinton.
This -- General Flynn's actions
would fall
within this investigation.
And we would need to get to the
bottom of
it.
If the facts are as reported,
then I think
the committee needs to interview
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
determine if the
facts are as reported?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Well, we understand
basic tradecraft.
And I would -- this is one of
the things that
just amazes me, that someone
with General
Flynn's security clearances
should know that,
if he's talking to a Russian
ambassador, chances
are those conversations are
monitored.
And if they had been monitored,
at some point,
we need to see the transcript.
Obviously, something has
happened so that
-- because General Flynn relayed
one set of
facts, and then, as it became
evident that
it appeared that there were
transcripts, he
changed and changed his story
and then ended
up resigning.
If the transcripts reveal what
the press has
said, this raises very, very
serious concerns
about potentially an American
who was not
part of an administration at
that point actually
trying to undermine then
President Obama's
sanctions against Russia, those
very sanctions
which were caused by the Russian
interference
in our electoral process.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are also
questions, Senator
Warner, being raised, as you
know, about whether
the president knew about the
conversations
that General Flynn was having at
that time,
whether he condoned them.
How do you find the answer to
that?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Well, that's
further down the
path.
And we have to start with what
Flynn said
to the Russian ambassador.
And it would be extraordinarily
troubling
-- and I hope and pray that it's
not the case
that the president was somehow
aware of these
conversations, the
president-elect at that
point, because what you, in
effect, would
be happening would be, you would
have someone
that wasn't at that point
actually the president
trying to undermine the policies
of then President
Obama, who had put these
sanctions in place
because, quite honestly, it was
the unprecedented
action of Russians interfering
in our elections.
I still will always remember the
head of the
NSA, the head of the CIA, the
FBI, the head -- the director of
national
intelligence, all four those
individuals testifying
in public and private that
they'd never seen
a foreign government, an
adversary, in the
case of Russia, try to interfere
in such a
major way in our elections.
And if somehow someone was
trying to undermine
then President Obama's sanctions
against that
nation, that would be
extraordinarily troubling.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I just talked to
Senator James
Risch, who is a Republican
member of the Intelligence
Committee.
He said he's confident that this
investigation
can be carried out by the Senate
Intelligence
Committee, that you don't need
an outside
independent body, a commission
of some sort.
Are you equally confident?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Well, that's my
hope.
And, again, I believe that this
-- the Intelligence
Committee, which has
jurisdiction -- we're
doing this bipartisan.
I think the American public
expect us to work
on this kind of activity in a
bipartisan fashion.
We have access.
We will get access to most this
intelligence.
And I have said -- and the
chairman, Richard
Burr, has said the same -- we're
going to
follow this to where the
intelligence leads.
We are going to follow the
facts, no matter
where they lead.
If at any moment in time,
though, that there
is an effort to try to suppress
facts or suppress
intelligence, then I and I
believe other members
of the committee will call for a
different
kind of investigation, and we
might go the
route of an independent
commission.
But right at this moment in
time, I believe
the Senate Intelligence
Committee, bipartisan,
going after the facts is the
right venue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you satisfied
right now,
Senator, with the progress being
made on the
rest of this investigation
looking overall
at Russian influence on the
election?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Remember, we're
looking at three
big areas.
We're looking at contacts
between campaigns
and the Russians, both prior to
and after
the fact, as the case with Mr.
Flynn.
We're looking at the
unprecedented amount
of fake news that flooded our
news coverage
during the election cycle.
I don't think most Americans
realize there
were literally 1,000 Russian
Internet trolls
working in a single location in
Russia trying
to interfere in our elections.
And they, I think, had major
interference.
And we're looking at the
selective hacking
of the DNC and John Podesta's
e-mails and
the leaking of that information.
We have contacted all our major
intelligence
agencies and said, we need to
see all the
raw intelligence.
We're starting that process to
look through
that intelligence.
I wish it could move faster.
I think, the sooner we get to
the bottom of
this, the better.
And I would even think the
administration,
if it removes the cloud that is
hanging over
this administration, I think
they would want
us to do our job as
expeditiously as possible
also.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Mark
Warner, the ranking
Democrat on the Intelligence
Committee, thank
you very much.
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Thank you so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Israel's Prime
Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is in Washington ahead
of a meeting
tomorrow with President Trump.
Special correspondent Martin
Seemungal has
some background from Jerusalem.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: Jerusalem's
Old City is
defined by divisions, four
quarters, Armenian,
Christian, Muslim, and Jewish, a
legacy of
conquests and occupations dating
back thousands
of years.
Israeli soldiers captured East
Jerusalem and
the Old City from Jordan in the
Six-Day War
of 1967.
Today, Israeli soldiers still
control the
streets of the Old City and the
thousands
of Palestinians who live here.
It is a tense, often volatile
place.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I love Israel.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: Enter Donald
Trump:
DONALD TRUMP: We will move the
American Embassy.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: Promising to
move the U.S.
Embassy from Tel Aviv to
Jerusalem during
his campaign.
Jerusalem's mayor, Nir Barkat,
welcomes the
news with open enthusiasm.
His vice mayor, Yitzhak Pindrus,
says it is
long overdue.
YITZHAK PINDRUS, Vice Mayor of
Jerusalem:
Jerusalem is the capital,
capital of Israel,
the capital of the Jewish
nation.
It was that for thousands of
years.
It's not something that's going
to change.
And I'm comfortable with that,
and I would
be very happy if the embassy
will move here.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: No nation on
Earth officially
recognizes Jerusalem as the
capital of Israel.
To understand why, you have to
go back beyond
the '67 war.
The United Nations' 1947
partition created
Jewish and Arab states, putting
Jerusalem
under international control.
Israel captured a large part of
Jerusalem
in 1948, and divided Israeli
West Jerusalem
from a Palestinian East
Jerusalem with a Green
Line.
Despite declaring West Jerusalem
as its capital,
no country moved embassies
there.
This is the old Green Line that
split Jerusalem
in two.
Israel annexed the eastern side
of the city
in the 1980s, illegally,
according to international
law.
And ever since, it's been trying
to erase
that sense of division.
But the reality remains West
Jerusalem is
predominately Jewish, East
Jerusalem is predominantly
Muslim.
Palestinians want East Jerusalem
as the capital
of a Palestinian state.
And Donald Trump's promise to
move the embassy
to Jerusalem has angered
Palestinians.
Hanan Ashrawi is a senior member
of the Palestinian
Liberation Organization.
HANAN ASHRAWI, Palestinian
Liberation Organization:
This is an irresponsible and
dangerous move.
Don't even think about it,
because you will
be inflaming feelings.
You will be turning this into a
religious
conflict.
You will be starting a whole new
cycle of
violence.
The U.S. will be seen as
complicit.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: The Trump
administration
got the same message from other
Arab leaders
in the region, and it may have
had an impact.
The embassy move doesn't seem so
imminent
anymore, and may have been
shelved for the
time being.
However, there is still a
feeling here that
the Trump administration favors
Israel.
Just before the new year, the
incoming president
tweeted: "We cannot continue to
let Israel
be treated with such total
disdain and disrespect.
Stay strong, Israel.
January 20 is fast approaching"
Trump's tweet came just after
former Secretary
of State John Kerry lashed out
at Israel for
its settlement policy, the last
flash point
in a tense relationship between
Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
the Obama
White House.
The two leaders clashed
repeatedly, the deepest
division over Iran.
Netanyahu was openly and harshly
critical
of the nuclear deal that Obama
championed.
Netanyahu's right-wing
government was criticized
often by the Obama
administration, particularly
on the issue of settlement
building in East
Jerusalem and the West Bank.
A clearly pleased Netanyahu
spoke the day
after Trump's victory.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, Israeli
Prime Minister:
You are a great friend of
Israel.
Over the years, you have
expressed your support
consistently, and I deeply
appreciate it.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: And within
days of Trump's
inauguration, Netanyahu
announced major settlement
expansion plans, 3,000 units in
total, the
biggest in years.
The White House stayed silent.
Ayelet Shaked is the justice
minister and
member of the right-wing Jewish
Home Party
that is pushing settlement
building in what
the government calls Judea and
Samaria, the
biblical term for the West Bank.
She says Netanyahu's
announcements were made
because Donald Trump is in the
White House
now.
AYELET SHAKED, Jewish Home
Party: Of course
it's not a coincidence.
For eight years, the Obama
administration
refused to any extension in
Judea and Samaria.
And, actually, in reality, the
main cities
there were frozen.
So, of course we expect that, in
a Trump administration,
it will be different.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: And there are
other indicators
of the Trump strong pro-Israel
sentiment.
President Trump's nominee for
ambassador to
Israel is David Friedman,
reportedly a U.S.
fund-raiser for a West Bank
settlement, who
believes Israel shouldn't be
forced into a
two-state solution.
President Trump seems likely to
appoint Jared
Kushner, his son-in-law, viewed
as extremely
sympathetic to Israel, to
negotiate a deal
between the Israelis and the
Palestinians.
HANAN ASHRAWI: Now you have
settlers and settler
supporters in the White House.
And it's unbelievable.
It's incredible.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: Dan Shapiro
understands
very well the complications of
trying to broker
peace between Palestinians and
Israelis.
He was the American ambassador
here during
the Obama years and knows what
Kushner is
about to face.
DAN SHAPIRO, Former U.S.
Ambassador to Israel:
Well, the first thing I would
say to anybody
given that assignment is, good
luck.
And I don't mean that in a
joking way.
Obviously, anybody who's worked
on this issue
knows its frustrations and
pitfalls.
One advantage he will certainly
have is his
close relationship to the
president.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: Negotiations
will be even
more difficult than usual if the
Palestinians
feel the new U.S. administration
has shifted
strongly towards Israel.
The early days of the Trump
administration
were not comforting to
Palestinians.
But when Netanyahu announced
another set of
settlement building, the White
House did react.
The first part of the statement
signaled a
shift in past policy, often
critical of Israel
on the settlement building
issue, saying the
administration doesn't believe
the settlements
are "an impediment to peace."
But then a change in tone: "The
construction
of new settlements or the
expansion of existing
settlements beyond their current
borders may
not be helpful in achieving that
goal."
It was interpreted in Israel as
a polite warning.
It raised some concern within
the Netanyahu
coalition.
Dan Meridor served as a Cabinet
minister under
Netanyahu, but left politics
because of Netanyahu's
shift to the right.
He says, when it comes to Trump,
the government
shouldn't assume too much.
DAN MERIDOR, Former Israeli
Cabinet Minister:
Because he's so unpredictable in
a way, I
wouldn't bet anything on what
may develop.
If I were the government, I
wouldn't base
any policies on any presumption
Trump will
go in a set way.
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL: White House
statements and
Trump's recent comments do
appear to indicate
a change in direction from the
first days
of Trump's presidency, more in
line with longstanding
American policy based on two
states for two
peoples.
The two-state solution is
critical to peace,
because Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud
Abbas still believes it.
It remains the foundation of the
Palestinian
dream.
Tomorrow's White House visit by
Netanyahu
will be watched very closely on
both sides
of Jerusalem and on the West
Bank for any
hint of a change in the status
quo, one defined
for so long by division.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Martin Seemungal
in Jerusalem.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: how a
school district
in Kansas is grappling with the
problems of
homeless students.
PBS special correspondent Lisa
Stark of our
partner Education Week reports.
It's part of our weekly series
Making the
Grade.
MAN: Let's go, let's go!
Keep the ball in bounds!
LISA STARK: It's varsity
basketball practice
at Schlagle High School in
Kansas City, Kansas,
and 6'6'' senior Malik Cushon is
the tallest
guy on the team, determined on
the court and
off.
MALIK CUSHON, Student: I just
had to set my
mind to it, had to be focused,
real focused
to get back where I needed to
be.
LISA STARK: Back from a place he
never expected
to find himself.
A few months ago, Malik had
nowhere to live.
MALIK CUSHON: Me and my mother
had a little
miscommunication, and one word
led to another.
I don't want to get too deep
into it, because
I still love my mother.
But it just wasn't right at the
moment, so
she just kicked me out.
LISA STARK: Did you realize he
was homeless?
PRENTES POTTS, Basketball Coach,
Schlagle
High School: I didn't know.
I didn't know.
LISA STARK: How did you find
out?
PRENTES POTTS: He told me.
He told me, told me through a
text message.
LISA STARK: But by the time
Malik told coach
Prentes Potts what was going on,
he was sleeping
on a friend's floor and had
missed nearly
a month of school, a common
problem for homeless
students, who are more likely to
fall behind
and drop out.
MALIK CUSHON: If I'm jumping
from place to
place, I'm not as focused on my
school work.
I got to think about what I'm
eating for the
night.
I got to think about how bills
are going to
get paid.
I got to think about all this
extra stuff.
PRENTES POTTS: It kind of -- it
blew me away.
Excuse me.
I'm getting choked up.
It blew me away, for the simple
fact is, he
never communicated anything like
that, and
his spirits are always so high.
You never could tell by looking
at him that
that is what he was going
through.
MALIK CUSHON: My little sister
and my big
brother.
LISA STARK: Malik now lives in
housing for
homeless youth, and gets
services from the
school district.
Under federal law, districts
must identify
homeless students, those on the
streets, doubled
up in motels and shelters, or,
like Malik,
on their own.
KERRY WRENICK, Homeless Liaison:
Did you do
the intake with Ms. Marie?
LISA STARK: Districts must also
have a homeless
liaison.
Here, that's Kerry Wrenick.
Her job is to make sure homeless
students
have the support they need to
stay in school.
KERRY WRENICK: We provide
educational services
to make sure that kids get
enrolled in school,
get transportation back and
forth to school,
and then just kind of ensuring
that their
everyday needs are met.
LISA STARK: Student homelessness
is a widespread
problem.
Nearly one in four school
districts in the
U.S. gets federal grant money to
help provide
services for homeless students.
And that money is stretched
thin.
It amounts to about an average
of about $50
per student.
So, the district also counts on
outside help.
KERRY WRENICK: Everything in
here is donated.
LISA STARK: This room overflows
with supplies
for homeless students and
families.
This is one of the poorest
districts in Kansas.
This year, the school district
expects to
help more than 1,000 homeless
students, nearly
5 percent of the student
population.
Over time, the solution became
clear.
To help homeless students, they
needed to
help homeless families.
KERRY WRENICK: I had to come to
the realization
that I wasn't doing enough, that
although
everything that I was doing was
well-intended,
I was putting a Band-Aid on
things.
LISA STARK: In 2015, Wrenick put
out a call
for help; 27 groups responded,
nonprofits,
civic groups, state agencies.
DESIREE MONIZE, Avenue of Life:
I think the
level of collaboration is very
unusual.
LISA STARK: Desiree Monize runs
Avenue of
Life, a nonprofit that helps
low-income families
and oversees this collaboration.
WOMAN: My oldest daughter, her
school had
referred me to here.
LISA STARK: Here's how it works.
Once a family is certified by
the school district
as homeless, they can get
assistance through
a program called Impact
Wednesday.
They meet with a case manager,
take classes
on employment, finance and
housing.
In return, there's help finding
a job and
a home.
WOMAN: Pay for transportation,
food and clothing.
LISA STARK: The program has
taken off.
DESIREE MONIZE: We piloted last
year when
the school district opened in
August.
And the close of year one, we
were able to
house 58 families, permanently
house, and
saw a 19 percent reduction in
homelessness
within the district by the close
of year one.
LISA STARK: And already this
school year,
65 families settled in homes,
including the
family of second grader Daisy
Swift (ph),
her fifth grade sister, Cece
Tiebout (ph),
and their mom, Angela Jordan, a
hairdresser.
ANGELA JORDAN, Mother: You guys
have everything
together?
LISA STARK: What if the school
district program
hadn't been there to help you?
ANGELA JORDAN: We wouldn't be
here right now.
I don't where we would be.
We'd probably be -- probably be
on the streets
or living in our car.
LISA STARK: Avenue of Life found
them this
one-bedroom apartment, covered
the deposit
and one month's rent.
The girls attend their original
elementary
school, even though it's not
their neighborhood
school.
Federal law requires districts
to provide
transportation to the school
students started
the year in, even if they move
into permanent
housing during the school year.
KERRY WRENICK: To keep one kid
at one school
for one year, we just have the
best outcome
for their learning and their
potential to
pass and go on to the next
grade.
ANGELA JORDAN: They knew that
that was their
safe zone, you know, that they
could go there
and be relaxed and know that
they were fine
there.
LISA STARK: These transportation
costs do
add up.
Two years ago, the district
spent $450,000
to transport homeless students.
ANGELA JORDAN: I will see you
guys after school.
LISA STARK: But they reduced
that by more
than 20 percent last year by
finding homes
for families.
WOMAN: Do you have cooking stuff
that's in
your hotel?
MAN: No.
LISA STARK: Kansas City's didn't
start out
to rescue homeless families, but
that's just
what happened when they focused
on saving
students.
What is your goal for these
kids?
KERRY WRENICK: To see them
graduate and end
the cycle of homelessness.
I mean, my greatest blessing
would be for
Malik to graduate and him never
enter the
system again.
LISA STARK: Malik is on track to
become the
first of his siblings to get a
traditional
high school diploma.
Then his plans include junior
college.
MALIK CUSHON: Just me
graduating, walking
the stage is going to be a proud
moment for
us.
LISA STARK: And a proud moment
for the district,
which found that fighting
student homelessness
takes a full-court press.
In Kansas City, Kansas, I'm Lisa
Stark of
Education Week for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: A remarkable
accomplishment
has taken place now in college
sports.
The women's basketball team at
the University
of Connecticut has now won 100
straight games.
William Brangham has more.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: To put this
streak in context,
the UConn women haven't lost a
basketball
game since 2014.
No one has beaten them in over
800 days.
And inside that span, they also
won two of
their record four national
championships.
One analyst called the UConn
women -- quote
-- "the most dominant program in
the history
of college basketball, period."
For more on these amazing women
and their
legendary coach, Geno Auriemma,
I'm joined
by USA Today's Christine
Brennan.
Welcome back to the "NewsHour."
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, USA Today:
Great to be
here, William.
Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, explain
this phenomenon
that is these women.
How do you explain their
dominance?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Well, no one
saw this coming,
if you consider, UConn had won
four national
championships in a row.
And...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amazing, in
and of itself.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: That's right.
And the top three players from
that, the seniors
who won all four years, all went
in the WNBA
draft first, second and third.
So, of all players coming out of
college,
they were the best three.
They all left.
So, everyone thought this was
going to be
a down year for UConn.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A rebuilding
year.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Exactly, and
expected a
loss or two early in the season.
And all of a sudden, UConn is
playing the
best teams in the country, and
they're not
losing, and they're winning and
winning and
winning.
And here we are with this
legendary 100th
victory for a team that is
synonymous with
winning, but nothing like this.
So, I think it's really
stunning, because
this was supposed to be, as you
said, the
rebuilding year, and they have
just reloaded.
And, again, it's just a great
testament to
a program and a coach, Geno
Auriemma, that
is not only just one of the
greatest in the
history of women's sports and
certainly the
best in women's basketball, but
I think in
all sports, men's or women's.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, if you
take the top
three players out of your team
-- and those
are the top three draft picks,
as you say
-- how do they do this?
Is this -- this obviously is a
testament to
something of the coaching ethos
at that school.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Exactly.
Well, Geno Auriemma will always
get three
or four of the best basketball
players in
the country every year, but you
only have
a team of 12.
It's not like he can pick 100
and have them,
stockpile them somewhere in a
gym in Storrs,
Connecticut, and pull them out
when he wants
to.
So, this is the part, William,
that is just
so amazing to me.
Today is the greatest day in
women's sports,
until tomorrow.
(LAUGHTER)
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: By that, I
mean Title IX
working its magic, coaching,
parents caring,
the salaries for coaches, the
training for
girls.
Everyone knows the girl next
door, their niece,
their daughter.
You see it every day in this
country now,
such a cultural phenomenon,
girls playing
sports, and then of course
women's sports
as well in college and onward.
And to think that, at this most
competitive
time in the history of women's
sports and
women's basketball, that you
would have one
team dominating like this, it's
truly amazing
to me, as a journalist who has
covered sports
all these years, that this is
happening now.
What it means is, Geno Auriemma
is such a
great coach.
He gets these great players.
And then he puts them into a
system where
he demands that they be
teammates.
They cannot be rock stars,
superstars.
Yes, they often -- in fact, some
of them become.
He wants them to be cogs in a
system that
has worked now for several
decades.
They buy into it, and they have
championship
after championship to prove it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lastly, I know
this is an
oft-debated question, but is
this kind of
a dynasty good for the sport?
I have heard it argued both
ways.
I mean, these women blow their
teammates away
-- their opponents, largely.
It this good for women's
basketball?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: I think it's
both good
and bad.
One the one hand, dynasties are
fun.
We just went through the New
England Patriots.
People are hoping the Cubs will
become a dynasty.
Obviously, you talk to a Yankee
fan, they
love that over the years.
As much as people hate the
Yankees, people
love the Yankees.
So, I think we're into dynasties
and winning,
Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, et
cetera.
I think that's certainly a
headline always
in sports.
And so, from that aspect, I
think it's a good
thing.
The bad part is, it's like, OK,
this is women's
basketball?
Where is the rivalry?
Where is the competition?
And I think there is concern --
and I know
I have certainly mentioned it --
that, OK,
again, at this most competitive
time in the
history of women's sports, how
is it possible
that one team dominates like
this?
What does it say about the
competition?
What does it say about the other
coaches?
My sense is that UConn may have
a couple more
really great years, but the
history tells
us and our culture tells us they
can't keep
this up.
And the Marylands, and the
Baylors, and the
Notre Dames are going to come on
like gangbusters
in a few years.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Christine
Brennan, thank
you so much.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Thank you,
William.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will take
it as a great
day for women athletes
everywhere.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.